Mandate use of git-secrets (#4858) (#4889)
DataBiosphere/azul: README.md

- AWS credentials configured in `~/.aws/credentials` and/or `~/.aws/config`

- [git-secrets] to help prevent secrets (passwords, credentials, etc.) from

>   being submitted into the git repository. It is recommended you follow the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  being submitted into the git repository. It is recommended you follow the
```

Recommended means optional. What level of protection does one get if one skips this step? The requirement is that `git secrets` is enabled for all clones of our repositories and that it prevents the user from making commits containing text that matches the general patterns as well as the specific AWS-related patterns.  Specifically, I am doubtful that the default steps enable the AWS-specific patterns. You should be specific on how a person satisfies that requirement. Ideally, this section should also specify a way to verify the correct functioning of `git secrets`. If the bullet item gets too long, it would be OK to extract it out into a separate section and link to it here.

- AWS credentials configured in `~/.aws/credentials` and/or `~/.aws/config`

> - git-secrets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- git-secrets
```

This should link to the section added below. Or inline that section here directly in the bullet point.

[Docker]: https://docs.docker.com/install/overview/

> ###2.1.1 git-secrets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2.1.1 git-secrets
```

[git-secrets](https://github.com/awslabs/git-secrets) helps to prevent secrets
(passwords, credentials, etc.) from being submitted into a git repository.
Follow the [install instructions](https://github.com/awslabs/git-secrets#installing-git-secrets)
to enable and configure git-secrets in all existing local Azul repositories.

> It is also recommended to follow the steps in the [advanced configuration](https://github.com/awslabs/git-secrets#id10)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is also recommended to follow the steps in the [advanced configuration](https://github.com/awslabs/git-secrets#advanced-configuration)
```

> It is also recommended to follow the steps in the [advanced configuration](https://github.com/awslabs/git-secrets#advanced-configuration)

Reviewer: The source would look cleaner if you converted the inline links to [reference-style](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links). That would also make it easier to inline the section into the bullet.

[Docker]: https://docs.docker.com/install/overview/

### 2.1.1 git-secrets

> [git-secrets] helps to prevent secrets (passwords, credentials, etc.) from being

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[git-secrets] helps prevent secrets (passwords, credentials, etc.) from being
```

> submitted into a git repository. See the "installing git-secrets" section of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
submitted into a git repository. See the *Installing git-secrets* section of the
```

> submitted into a git repository. See the *installing git-secrets* section of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
submitted into a Git repository. See the *installing git-secrets* section of the
```

> submitted into a git repository. See the *installing git-secrets* section of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
submitted into a git repository. See the *Installing git-secrets* section of the
```

> project's README for instructions how to install git-secrets on your OS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
project's README for instructions how to install [git-secrets] on your OS.
```

accross the board

> project's README.rst for instructions how to install git-secrets on your OS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
project's README for instructions how to install git-secrets on your OS.
```

needlessly specific

Once installed, git-secrets will need to be configured for your local Azul

> repositories. To configure git-secrets in a single local repository, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clones. To configure git-secrets in a single local repository, run:
```

Any of our repositories, really.

>     cd /path/to/my/repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    cd /path/to/my/clone
```

    git secrets --install
    git secrets --register-aws
    

> To automatically configure git-secrets in all repositories you initialize or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To automatically configure git-secrets in all clone you initialize or
```

> repositories and those you will initialize or clone in the future:

Reviewer: I don't think this installs it globally for all existing repos. It just does it for clones created in the future.

    git secrets --install ~/.git-templates/git-secrets
    git config --global init.templateDir ~/.git-templates/git-secrets
    git secrets --register-aws --global

Once finished, run this check in all your local Azul repositories to confirm
that git-secrets is installed and configured correctly.

    cd /path/to/my/repo

>     make check_git_secrets

Reviewer: Since we need to ensure this for every clone of each of our repositories, I don't think we should use a make target here.

Author: >  I don't think we should use a make target here.

A script instead?

[Docker]: https://docs.docker.com/install/overview/

### 2.1.1 git-secrets

[git-secrets] helps prevent secrets (passwords, credentials, etc.) from being

> submitted into a Git repository. See the *Installing git-secrets* section of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
committed to a Git repository. See the *Installing git-secrets* section of the
```

project's README for instructions how to install [git-secrets] on your OS.

> Once installed, git-secrets will need to be configured for your local repository

Reviewer: This doesn't get the point across that it needs to be enabled in ALL clones.

> clones. To configure git-secrets in a single clone, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clones. To configure git-secrets in an existing clone, run:
```

>     cd /path/to/my/clone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    cd /path/to/clone
```

    git secrets --install
    git secrets --register-aws
    

> To automatically configure git-secrets in all future clones, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To automatically configure git-secrets in clones created subsequently, run:
```

    git secrets --install ~/.git-templates/git-secrets
    git config --global init.templateDir ~/.git-templates/git-secrets
    git secrets --register-aws --global

> Finally, once configured you should verify the functionality of git-secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, once configured you must verify the functionality of git-secrets in every …
```

With a clean working copy, run these commands in each of your clones to verify a
successful setup:

>     cd /path/to/my/clone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    cd /path/to/clone
```

    echo -e 'AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=0000-0000-000\x30' > git_secrets_test_file.txt
    git add git_secrets_test_file.txt

>     .git/hooks/pre-commit

Reviewer: You must not have seen https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/pull/4889#discussion_r1084754201

Author: `git hook` is only available in newer versions of `git`.

```
(.venv) daniel@Crispin ~/repo/azul2 $ git hook
git: 'hook' is not a git command. See 'git --help'.
(.venv) daniel@Crispin ~/repo/azul2 $
(.venv) daniel@Crispin ~/repo/azul2 $ git --version
git version 2.30.1 (Apple Git-130)
```

From: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55959023/call-githooks-as-standalone-scripts/71101716#71101716
> This will be officially supported with Git 2.36 (Q2 2022)

Should we add a minimum version of `git` to the `Development Prerequisites` section of the README?

    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=000000000000000000000000000000000000000[x]0
    AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=0000-0000-000[x]0

If git-secrets is configured correctly, the commit will fail to complete. If
the commit succeeds, or if the error message does not mention all three lines

> containing secrets, git-secrets is not functioning correctly in your clone.

Reviewer: Please simplify this. We don't gain much by testing three patterns instead of just one. Convert the instructions to a single sequence of commands using `cat` and `git commit`. See if `git commit` has a dry-run flag so that the hooks are invoked but no commit is made.  In the cat invocation you could use shell quoting to achieve the same as manually doing the `x` thing.

Author: Unfortunately, `--dry-run` does not invoke the hooks. In the `man githooks` documentation there are options to bypass the various hooks, but I can find no option to include a hook in a dry run commit.

```
(.venv) daniel@Crispin ~/repo/azul1 $ git s --short
A  git_secrets_test_file.txt

(.venv) daniel@Crispin ~/repo/azul1 $ git commit -m 'foo' --dry-run
On branch issues/danielsotirhos/4858-add-git-secrets-to-prerequisites
Your branch is up to date with 'github/issues/danielsotirhos/4858-add-git-secrets-to-prerequisites'.

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
	new file:   git_secrets_test_file.txt

(.venv) daniel@Crispin ~/repo/azul1 $ git commit -m 'foo'
git_secrets_test_file.txt:1:AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=0000-0000-0000

[ERROR] Matched one or more prohibited patterns

Possible mitigations:
- Mark false positives as allowed using: git config --add secrets.allowed ...
- Mark false positives as allowed by adding regular expressions to .gitallowed at repository's root directory
- List your configured patterns: git config --get-all secrets.patterns
- List your configured allowed patterns: git config --get-all secrets.allowed
- List your configured allowed patterns in .gitallowed at repository's root directory
- Use --no-verify if this is a one-time false positive
```

Reviewer: Try `git hook run pre-commit`
